Truth is
I'm past saving.
I know how my story ends.
I've been the one
out there and scared.
And Dean...
did whatever he could to save you.
I owe him this.
I owe him everything.
Aah!
Mother.
- Will you help me?
- Kill my son?
- What are you doing?
- I'm saving my brother.
Don't tell your brother
what we're doing.
♪ Whoa. thought it was
a nightmare ♪
Rowena:
She's cracked the code.
♪ Lord. it was so true ♪
♪ they told me
don't go walking slow ♪
♪ the devil's on the loose ♪
♪ better run
through the jungle ♪
[ Snaps ]
♪ Whoa.
don't look back to see ♪
Impetus bestiarum.
God locked
the darkness away.
and he created a Mark that
would serve as lock and key.
The Mark cannot be removed.
lest the darkness be set free.
♪
[ Roaring ]
Hey!
The hell's going on?!
[ Horn blaring ]
Ohh.
[ Blaring continues ]
[ Horn shuts off ]
[ Roaring ]
Hold on!
Dean?!
Dean?
Hey!
Dean.
[ Groans ]
You okay?
Yeah.
Where's the car?
I-i-it's...
About a mile that way.
What?
Seriously?
The -- the darkness hit.
You disappeared.
You remember none of this?
Hold on!
She saved me.
What?
Who?
The Darkness.
♪ Supernatural 11x01 ♪
Out of the Darkness. Into the Fire
Original Air Date on October
== sync. corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Sam:
What are you saying?
What do you mean.
she saved you?
You were there. When the storm
hit. everything went dark.
Yeah. but you just
disappeared from the car.
I don't even
remember that.
Well. I don't remember
some woman pulling you out.
Well. what do you
want me to say. okay?
I was in the car.
and then I wasn't in the car.
I was in the field.
and she was there.
And she told you
she was the darkness.
No. She was wearing a nametag.
What do you think?
She thanked me.
For what?
Setting her free.
You didn't set her free.
I set her free.
It doesn't matter.
I mean. yeah.
you said the spell.
but I had the Mark.
so lock and key.
So. what. now she feels indebted
to you or something?
I don't know.
She's the darkness.
Does she feel anything?
And that's all she said?
Thanks?
Yeah. She was weird.
But she had this energy
about her. this -- this focus.
But. yeah. not a talker.
So we know Jack.
Well. we know
what she looks like.
and we know
that she's evil.
The question is.
what does she know?
I mean. she's been locked away
since the beginning of time.
Does she even know
what a cheeseburger is?
All I know is that
we set her free.
and we're gonna put her back in.
no matter what it takes.
What the...
Just gonna let me
get in the car?
You were on a roll.
[ Car door slams ]
[ Birds chirping ]
[ Growling ]
Don't!
Please!
You think
you can kill me?
You execrable --
[ groaning ]
[ Birds chirping ]
No.
He's still alive.
[ Door opens ]
Don't make me hurt you.
Do you hear me?
I can't help myself.
You have to run.
[ Gunshot ]
[ Gunshots ]
[ Engine rumbles ]
[ Engine shuts off ]
[ Police radio chatter ]
[ Guns cock in unison ]
The hell happened here?
[ Door closes ]
Hello?
That's not a happy sight.
Hey. easy. buddy.
Just stay cool
till we figure out
what's going here. okay?
Kind of narrowing
my options here.
We don't even know
what he is.
[ Gunshot ]
Weapons on the ground.
Slow.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
Easy. officer.
We're FBI. okay?
We got badges.
Don't.
Show me some skin.
-Huh?
-What?
Both of you.
Is this. like.
a "Magic Mike" moment?
Your throats!
Oh. you think we're --
we're...
We don't even know
what these are.
I need to know
you're not one of 'em.
- One of what?
- Let's go!
Okay. all right. look.
Huh? See?
Good.
Let's see those IDs.
Yeah. whoa.
Take -- take it easy. okay?
Bad guys?
[ Gasping ] Rebar.
I sought cover.
I fell.
Okay. Why don't you tell us
what happened here?
911 reported a family
in distress.
I arrived to find several
hostiles attacking said family.
Oh. God. it was horrible.
How long you been
on the job. deputy?
Uh...
Okay. three weeks.
Okay.
I'm Dean.
This is Sam.
Just breathe. Okay?
Speak plain.
What happened?
They killed them all.
Who?
Road crew. It was --
they were like rabid dogs.
I fired off a warning.
but they didn't stop.
They...
You killed all these?
I knew some of the boys.
but they didn't look --
something was wrong.
They were...
They're not human.
Hey. look. I can stitch that up.
but. uh. it's gonna be ugly.
You got a hospital
around here?
Up the road.
All right.
Here we go.
Well. this is encouraging.
Wait here.
So. what are you
thinking?
I don't really know
what to think.
And I don't know
what to expect in here.
so I'm just gonna
Chuck it all in.
This is the darkness. right?
It's got to be.
So. what. she shows up and
everybody goes "28 Days Later"?
We didn't.
Yeah.
but I was in the car.
and you were --
you said she protected you.
So maybe it wasn't her.
Maybe it was the smoke.
and anybody who was outside.
like the road crew.
they were exposed.
I mean. you saw that.
That wasn't human.
So. what?
The smoke mutated 'em?
Sure. why not?
Just a couple hours ago.
I killed death.
I'm pretty much open
for anything.
But mutated into what?
All right. you know what.
one thing at a time.
Let's just get her
some help
and then we'll deal with
whatever comes next.
I got to call this in.
No. bad idea.
More people. more bodies.
We'll deal with this.
You know what. Dean.
I'm gonna take a look around.
You sew her up.
All right.
You know this place?
- This way.
- Okay.
[ Crash ]
[ Banging ]
[ Grunting ]
[ Breathing heavily ]
[ Baby crying ]
This is gonna hurt
like a son of a bitch.
I knew those boys' sisters.
their parents.
You did what you
were trained to do.
[ Inhales sharply ]
It's all right.
They don't train you
to shoot your friends.
I panicked.
I could have...
Those boys weren't boys.
They were monsters.
and they were a threat.
Anybody
could have panicked.
Not anybody could have done
what you did.
This job is supposed to be
saving people.
Yeah. well...
It sounds better on paper.
doesn't it?
Well. now that you've
said your thanks.
let's talk about
what happens next.
I like it here.
With you.
I haven't felt this peaceful
in a long. long time.
Well. let's get
something straight --
I'm not here
to bring you peace.
I know what you are.
Really?
I've been gone so long. I didn't
think anyone remembered.
Well. death painted
a hell of a picture.
I don't know this death.
and he doesn't know me.
So. are you saying I shouldn't
try and kill you right now?
Am I saying that?
Or are you?
[ Banging and clattering ]
Hello?
[ Choking ]
Man: Is he dead?
Yeah. um...
[ Clears throat ]
Yeah. he's dead.
It's okay to come out.
I'm. uh. FBI.
Here.
I'm gonna slide my badge
under the door. okay?
[ Lock clicks ]
Help us. please.
[ Baby fusses ]
[ Sighs ]
Bollocks.
Hmm.
Old-school it is.
Vanilla spice?
Man:
Marn? Down here!
Hmm.
What's going on?
You just sit
your tush down. okay?
Just let me get this out.
I've been thinking a lot
about what you said --
and -- and I know.
I lost my chickens
when you put it
out there.
But it's not every day
that your wife tells you
that she wants to watch you
get a party started
with your best friends.
I mean. am I right?
[ Laughs ]
[ Laughter ]
Hmm.
Go on.
So. I slept on it
and I prayed on it.
and then it came to me.
Yolo.
Yolo?
"You only live once."
[ Laughs ]
Don't.
Sorry.
So. I called Dale.
and he said...
H-e-double-hockey-sticks.
yeah!
Dale ran it by Deb...
We were only gonna get
buffet anyway.
[ Laughs ]
-And here we are.
I didn't think
I'd be this nervous. but...
Hey. hey. hey. Don't worry.
We'll be gentle.
- Not!
- Oh. Dale!
[ Laughter ]
Anyhoo. it's your day.
birthday girl.
You just say go. and. heck --
we will light this candle.
Marn? Everything okay
with the car?
Oh.
[ Chuckles ]
It's fine.
Just fine.
[ Crickets chirping ]
The doc said it was gonna be
a tough birth. but Janie...
...she stepped up.
The twister hit.
the power went out.
She just kept on going.
No drugs.
Just pushed out this little
dewdrop like she was nothing.
Then Janie started
bleeding.
They tried. but...
[ Voice breaking ]
You'd think they'd know
how to stop
something like that.
I'm so sorry. Mike.
You think you could tell us
what happened here?
I went outside. after.
Collect myself.
A truckload of 'em
pulled up.
The road crew?
They didn't say nothing.
They just went off.
attacking folks
like they were possessed.
I tore back inside
to get this little one.
I found
that supply closet.
and you know.
been there since.
I could hear them.
though.
Tearing
through the halls.
Doctors. nurses --
they didn't care.
[ Clears throat ]
You said the road crew
went nuts.
Did any of them
come after you?
Yeah. a few of them.
Did they cut you
or bleed on you?
They did.
I don't understand.
What are you saying?
Saying that
whatever this is.
it might be transmittable.
What? We don't even know
what this is.
Now you're saying
it can be passed on?
He's right.
I can feel it.
Inside.
Something's happening.
How long has it been
since you were attacked?
Three. four hours.
The real question is.
how long till
I become like them?
[ Police radio chatter ]
[ Gun cocks ]
Brothers. sisters...
I know I have no right.
I have no standing
to ask you -- you anything.
but these are desperate times.
so ask I must.
I confess my transgressions.
and I will accept whatever
punishment you dole out.
Now. I...
I ask you to help me.
Please.
Save me from doing worse.
[ Indistinct talking ]
Well. you know
where I stand.
No. you're not...
You can't be serious.
And if he goes out there.
they'll kill him.
So. we just wait around
for him to kill us?
Oh. yeah. that's --
that's a plan.
Or we just wait
for him to die.
There was a --
whatever you want to call it --
a "rabid" attacking
the closet door.
and he just died.
These things
have a shelf life.
I can't believe
what I'm hearing here.
No. he's right.
We lock him up.
we find a cure.
- This is a hospital.
- Yeah. well. call it a hunch.
but I don't think you're gonna
find this in the medical books.
I didn't open up that closet
door to find a cure.
Look. Mike. I'm sorry.
but this is untenable.
I know.
That's why I thought maybe
we could make a deal.
I'll go find somewhere quiet
and lay low until this is over.
[ Baby coos ]
And you save my baby girl.
Yeah.
[ Baby cries ]
You've got yourself
a deal.
[ Sobs ]
And I thank you for that.
I truly do.
But I wasn't talking
to you.
I know you.
I've seen you in church
since you were knee-high.
[ Baby fusses ]
Please.
I don't even own
a Guinea pig.
[ Baby cries ]
There you go.
little girl.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
Why do I get
the feeling
that that is gonna
bite us in the ass?
You good?
Oh. yeah. Aces.
All right. let's gear up.
Sam:
That might be tricky.
What's he doing?
[ Baby fusses ]
- Dean...
- We made a promise.
To do what?
Charge out there. guns blazing?
We don't even know
how to kill them.
She does. Chest. right?
I'm guessing heart.
This is madness.
No.
No. that is madness.
This is horse sense.
Save Mike's baby.
but shoot Mike.
Tell me
where that makes sense.
Look. we can just wait
for them to die.
And how long is that?
And when they infect others.
how long is that?
No. we stay here.
that baby dies.
We did this. Sam.
Okay?
We broke it.
we bought it.
You know
there's no other way.
[ Cellphone rings ]
[ Beep ]
Where the hell
are you. Cass?
Cass: I'm...I'm okay.
You don't sound okay.
Dean. I am fine.
Besides. what I have.
you can't help me.
What do you mean.
what you have?
Just please tell Sam --
Rowena escaped with the Book
of the Damned and the codex.
Okay. forget Rowena.
Where are you?
Now. you tell me --
the Mark...
Oh. really? You're worried
about me after everything --
Dean. is it gone?
Yes. I'm good.
I mean. I'm not great.
That's two of us.
This is good news.
- Hey. Cass.
- Sam.
Okay. your turn.
Talk to us about the darkness.
Why would I talk
about the darkness?
Because it's free.
No. that can't be.
Removing the Mark opened
some kind of lock.
Dean saw her.
The darkness is a woman?
Well. that's what
we're asking you.
We were hoping
you could tell us
what kind of DEFCON screwed
we are.
[ Rustling ]
Cass?
Sam. Dean...
Goodbye.
It may be some time
before we see one another again.
Wait. Cass. Cass!
FBI. my ass.
Brothers.
♪ It's not unusual
to have fun with anyone ♪
♪ but when I see you
hanging about with anyone ♪
♪ it's not unusual
to see me cry ♪
♪ I wanna die ♪
♪ it's not unusual... ♪
Took you long enough.
We came
as soon as you called.
What do we call you?
King.
What about the other
white meatsuit?
Secured. We have
another team and a witch
removing Rowena's immobilization
spell as we speak.
Hmm.
Is anybody hot?
I'm hot.
I believe that's
the menopause. sir.
Thank you.
What?
Uh. it's nothing. sir.
Speak.
It's just. you barely
escaped assassination.
You're arguably
on the run
from the most powerful witch
on earth --
not to mention
an angel of heaven...
And. uh?
Y-you didn't call for help
until after the orgy?
Hmm.
I apologize...
For nothing.
Look. I get it.
I do.
We're gonna save
that baby. okay?
And we're gonna find Cass. and
we're gonna stop the darkness.
Okay. so what
are we talking about?
The plan.
We have a plan. okay?
It's the same plan
as it's always been.
In order to get out.
we go through.
And?
How's that been
working for us?
We can't save Cass if we're
stuck in some hospital. okay?
Just like I can't strap on
a time machine. go back.
and tell Cain to shove that Mark
up his ass
or stop you from releasing
the darkness.
Now. have we made mistakes?
Yes. Hell. yes.
And we can analyze each
and every one of them
over a couple of frosties
when we're old
and farting sawdust
and out of this room!
Right now. all I can do is
I can gear up. I can head out.
and I can save
that freaking baby.
which is exactly
what I'm gonna do.
When did we forget
how to do this?
What?
Dean. if we don't change --
right now --
all of our crap is just gonna
keep repeating itself.
Hey. I-I don't even --
what?
This -- this "kill first.
question later."
What happened to us?
Hunting things --
we're good at that.
Sure.
we're great at that.
But that's only half
of the bumper sticker. man.
Sam. I am trying
to save that baby.
And what about
the others out there?
You mean the ones
trying to kill us?
I mean the ones that are sick.
the ones that are dying.
Yeah. who won't rest until
they've infected us all.
So we just forget
about a cure?
What cure?
Jenna's cure?
There is always
a cure.
You just have to
want to find it.
Yeah. how are you gonna
find it if you're dead?
And around
and around we go.
Saving people means
all of the people. Dean.
Not just that baby.
Not just each other.
I unleashed a force
on this world
that could destroy it...
to save you.
And I told you not to.
And I'd do it again.
In a second.
I would do it again.
And that is what
I'm talking about.
This isn't on you.
It is on us.
We have to change.
What are you thinking?
Get Jenna to the car.
Get her and the baby
somewhere safe.
Without a shot.
And what are we gonna do about
those things on our tail?
They won't be on your tail.
No way.
You said it. Dean.
We broke this.
Yeah. we broke this. okay?
We did.
I heard it in your voice
when you agreed
to take that child.
I get it.
You do what you do.
But you've got to let me do
what I do. too.
[ Clattering ]
Hey!
Over here!
Come on.
Come and get me.
you sons of bitches!
[ Breathing heavily ]
[ Banging ]
[ Grunting ]
[ Banging continues ]
Don't do this.
Let me help you.
Come on.
[ Roars ]
The baby.
No.
We're not gonna
hurt you. Mike.
As long as you leave
that baby alone.
Mike.
Amara.
What?
Her name...
is Amara.
[ Choking ]
[ Sputtering ]
Ahh.
Daddy's home.
What?
Sir...
There are rumors
from Hell.
Rumors?
The Darkness
has been released.
The Darkness?
Please. Myth.
It's a bedtime story.
Something that daddy demons
threaten toddler demons with
to get them to eat
their vegetables.
Even if it was true.
what's the concern?
Darkness. King of Hell --
natural allies.
It's just --
something happened. sir...
In the cage.
What?
Uh. they said it sounded
like a frightened animal.
All of hell heard --
like someone was going crazy.
The rumor is that Michael
or Lucifer --
one of them
is trying to warn us.
About the darkness.
Ridiculous.
Except...
Half of Hell is sort of
freaking out. sir.
What do we do?
After Metatron escaped.
we moved the door to heaven.
Yeah. smart.
You know. to prevent
further incidents.
Of course. I would have
done the same thing.
Before we go back.
we need to find a witch
or someone who knows spellcraft
to remove the...
Ugh!
I don't understand.
You're not taking me
to heaven.
No.
We're not.
[ Screaming ]
[ Engine shuts off ]
Oh. you good?
Yeah.
Baby. Poop.
What could go wrong?
Godspeed.
I have no idea
what I'm doing.
Right.
Listen. I know things
might seem dark right now --
hell.
call it pitch-black.
And you may not be
able to see it.
but your way back
is right there.
You and her.
You're gonna help each other.
Joy comes in the morning.
My grandma
leads a Bible study.
Ah.
Well. let's go with that.
[ Beep ]
[ Cellphone rings ]
Hey. you good?
Yeah. about 40 miles
outside of town.
As far as I can tell.
it's isolated to Superior.
Well. that's something.
How about you?
You okay?
What'd you expect?
Like it or not.
I'm gonna find a cure.
Yeah. I know you are.
Man. things are screwy
right now.
I know we don't have
any answers.
but at least we got
one win. you know?
I hear you.
All right. I'm gonna run Jenna
up to her grandmother's.
Shouldn't be more
than a few hours.
Then we clean up that town.
We find the Darkness.
and we kick her ass.
Yeah. that's great. Dean.
That...sounds like a plan.
[ Beep ]
If you're as bad
as they say you are.
why haven't you hurt me?
For the same reason
that you'll never hurt me.
We're bound. Dean.
We'll always be bound.
You helped me.
I helped you.
No matter where I am.
who I am...
We will always
help each other.
[ Baby coos ]
== sync. corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man